There are basic components of IAM. First, we have the user; many users together form a group. Policies are the engines that allow or deny a connection based on policy. Roles are temporary credentials that can be assumed to an instance as needed.

DIFFERENCES BETWEEN USERS, ROLES, PERMISSIONS, POLICIES, AND GROUPS.
•	USERS: An IAM user is an entity that you create in AWS. The IAM user represents the person or service who uses the IAM user to interact with AWS.  An IAM user is an identity with an associated credential and permissions attached to it. This could be an actual person who is a user, or it could be an application that is a user. A primary use for IAM users is to give people the ability to sign into the AWS Management Console for interactive tasks and to make programmatic requests to AWS services using the API or CLI.  A user in AWS consists of a name, a password to sign into the AWS Management Console, and up to two access keys that can be used with the API or CLI. When you create an IAM user, you grant it permissions by making it a member of a user group that has appropriate permission policies attached (recommended), or by directly attaching policies to the user. You can also clone the permissions of an existing IAM user, which automatically makes the new user a member of the same user groups and attaches all the same policies.

•	ROLES: An IAM role is very similar to a user, in that it is an identity with permission policies that determine what the identity can and cannot do in AWS. However, a role does not have any credentials (password or access keys) associated with it. Instead of being uniquely associated with one person, a role is intended to be assumable by anyone who needs it. An IAM user can assume a role to temporarily take on different permissions for a specific task. A role can be assigned to a federated user who signs in by using an external identity provider instead of IAM.

•	POLICIES: An IAM policy sets permission and controls access to AWS resources. Policies are stored in AWS as JSON documents. Permissions specify who has access to the resources and what actions they can perform. For example, a policy could allow an IAM user to access one of the buckets in Amazon S3. The policy would contain the following information: Who can access it, what actions that user can take, which AWS resources that user can access, and when they can be accessed.

•	GROUPS: A collection of IAM users is an IAM group. An IAM user group is a collection of IAM users. You can use user groups to specify permissions for a collection of users, which can make those permissions easier to manage for those users. Any user in that user group automatically has the permissions that are assigned to the user group. If a new user joins your organization and should have administrator privileges, you can assign the appropriate permissions by adding the user to that user group.  



